doc/1-02-getting-started.md, before:

# Getting started

## Dependencies
  You will need following things which you have to install on your own depending on your system.

  - Homebrew (for Mac OS) /Linuxbrew (for Linux)
  - Java 8
  - Docker, Docker Compose >= 1.13.1, 1.22.0

  After having all mentioned above dependencies just use the following commands:

  1. Install make, aws, aws-sam, leiningen and clojure
    ```
    brew tap aws/tap && brew install make leiningen awscli aws-sam-cli clojure/tools/clojure
    ```

  2. Configure default AWS profile via `aws-cli`. This is necessary for making a bucket and deploying an application. If you just want to test holy-lambda on local then this step is not necessary, but you will be able to use only a limited set of commands.

   ```
   aws configure
   ```

## First project 

### A local, Java-runtime lambda

This will run a AWS Lambda API server with the Java runtime.

1. Run `lein new holy-lambda getting_started`.
2. `cd getting_started`.
3. Run `make dry-api`.

After some downloading of some artifacts, you should see:

```
sam local start-api --template template.yml
Mounting ExampleLambdaFunction at http://127.0.0.1:3000/ [GET]
You can now browse to the above endpoints to invoke your functions. You do not need to restart/reload SAM CLI while working on your functions, changes will be reflected instantly/automatically. You only need to restart SAM CLI if you update your AWS SAM template
2021-04-23 00:58:55  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:3000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

4. In another terminal, `cd` to this directory and run `make local-test`.

After a few seconds, in this second terminal, you should see the following output:

```
Connection to localhost port 3000 [tcp/hbci] succeeded!
curl "http://127.0.0.1:3000/"
Hello world%
```

5. Look again at the first terminal that's running the AWS Lambda server, you should see evidence of this api activity with something like:

```
START RequestId: 0b1999de-1a62-4cde-ab8f-bc536da8db7a Version: $LATEST
END RequestId: 0b1999de-1a62-4cde-ab8f-bc536da8db7a
REPORT RequestId: 0b1999de-1a62-4cde-ab8f-bc536da8db7a	Init Duration: 0.30 ms	Duration: 16856.78 ms	Billed Duration: 16900 ms	Memory Size: 2000 MB	Max Memory Used: 2000 MB
2021-04-23 01:01:46 127.0.0.1 - - [23/Apr/2021 01:01:46] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

You'll see these similar three lines every time a client accesses your API.

Hit Control-C to quit the AWS Lambda server.


### How did this work?

Running `make dry-api` started the `sam local start-api` with the `template.yml` template file as the input. The key parts of the `template.yml` file are:

- `CodeUri:` This specifies the relative path to the Uberjar `output.jar`.
- `Handler:` This is the name of a class in the `CodeUri` 's specified
class, contained in `output.jar`.

The Clojure source code for this
function is in `src/core/ExampleLambda.cljc`.

`sam local start-api` listens on port 3000 and waits for a client
connection. To handle the client connection, it starts a Docker
container using the image `amazon/aws-sam-cli-emulation-image-java8`,
running `/var/rapid/aws-lambda-rie` using your JAR and passing the
client's request parameters, runs your function within a JVM, and returns the
result to the client. It then terminates the Docker container after the client connection is closed.

### A local, native-runtime lambda

1. `cd` again to the `getting_started` directory you made in your first step.
2. Run `make dry-api-native`.

After some compilation, you should see:

```
sam local start-api --template template-native.yml --debug
...
2021-04-24 12:35:00,936 | 1 APIs found in the template
2021-04-24 12:35:00,949 | Mounting ExampleLambdaFunction at http://127.0.0.1:3000/ [GET]
2021-04-24 12:35:00,949 | You can now browse to the above endpoints to invoke your functions. You do not need to restart/reload SAM CLI while working on your functions, changes will be reflected instantly/automatically. You only need to restart SAM CLI if you update your AWS SAM template
2021-04-24 12:35:00,949 | Localhost server is starting up. Multi-threading = True
2021-04-24 12:35:00  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:3000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

3. As with the Java runtime, in another terminal, `cd` to this directory and run `make local-test` to call the API you've created from the Lambda server:

After a few seconds, in this second terminal, you should again see the following output:

```
Connection to localhost port 3000 [tcp/hbci] succeeded!
curl "http://127.0.0.1:3000/"
Hello world%
```

5. Look again at the first terminal that's running the AWS Lambda server, you should see evidence of this api activity with something like:

```
2021-04-24 12:38:29 127.0.0.1 - - [24/Apr/2021 12:38:29] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

The first time you call the API with `make local-test`, there will be
a delay as the Lambda server decompresses your compiled code from the
ZIP file. Subsequent calls will be faster, and should be noticeably
faster than the Java-runtime Lambda server.

Commit message:

add partially-done 'how did this work?' section for 'make dry-api-native'

doc/1-02-getting-started.md, after:

# Getting started

## Dependencies
  You will need following things which you have to install on your own depending on your system.

  - Homebrew (for Mac OS) /Linuxbrew (for Linux)
  - Java 8
  - Docker, Docker Compose >= 1.13.1, 1.22.0

  After having all mentioned above dependencies just use the following commands:

  1. Install make, aws, aws-sam, leiningen and clojure
    ```
    brew tap aws/tap && brew install make leiningen awscli aws-sam-cli clojure/tools/clojure
    ```

  2. Configure default AWS profile via `aws-cli`. This is necessary for making a bucket and deploying an application. If you just want to test holy-lambda on local then this step is not necessary, but you will be able to use only a limited set of commands.

   ```
   aws configure
   ```

## First project 

### A local, Java-runtime lambda

This will run a AWS Lambda API server with the Java runtime.

1. Run `lein new holy-lambda getting_started`.
2. `cd getting_started`.
3. Run `make dry-api`.

After some downloading of some artifacts, you should see:

```
sam local start-api --template template.yml
Mounting ExampleLambdaFunction at http://127.0.0.1:3000/ [GET]
You can now browse to the above endpoints to invoke your functions. You do not need to restart/reload SAM CLI while working on your functions, changes will be reflected instantly/automatically. You only need to restart SAM CLI if you update your AWS SAM template
2021-04-23 00:58:55  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:3000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

4. In another terminal, `cd` to this directory and run `make local-test`.

After a few seconds, in this second terminal, you should see the following output:

```
Connection to localhost port 3000 [tcp/hbci] succeeded!
curl "http://127.0.0.1:3000/"
Hello world%
```

5. Look again at the first terminal that's running the AWS Lambda server, you should see evidence of this api activity with something like:

```
START RequestId: 0b1999de-1a62-4cde-ab8f-bc536da8db7a Version: $LATEST
END RequestId: 0b1999de-1a62-4cde-ab8f-bc536da8db7a
REPORT RequestId: 0b1999de-1a62-4cde-ab8f-bc536da8db7a	Init Duration: 0.30 ms	Duration: 16856.78 ms	Billed Duration: 16900 ms	Memory Size: 2000 MB	Max Memory Used: 2000 MB
2021-04-23 01:01:46 127.0.0.1 - - [23/Apr/2021 01:01:46] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

You'll see these similar three lines every time a client accesses your API.

Hit Control-C to quit the AWS Lambda server.

#### How did this work?

Running `make dry-api` started the `sam local start-api` with the `template.yml` template file as the input. The key parts of the `template.yml` file are:

- `CodeUri:` This specifies the relative path to the Uberjar `output.jar`.
- `Handler:` This is the name of a class in the `CodeUri` 's specified
class, contained in `output.jar`. The handler,
`getting_started.core.ExampleLambda`, is defined in the source code
using the `fierycode.holy-lambda.core/deflambda` Clojure macro, which provides the necessary connections
between the defined function's logic and the AWS Lambda server.
- `FunctionName:` This is the name of the AWS Lambda function that is
  registered with the Lambda service. When deployed on AWS's Lambda
  service, the name must be unique among the set of the Lambda function for
  your AWS account.

The Clojure source code for this
function is in `src/core/ExampleLambda.cljc`.

`sam local start-api` listens on port 3000 and waits for a client
connection. To handle the client connection, it starts a Docker
container using the image `amazon/aws-sam-cli-emulation-image-java8`,
running `/var/rapid/aws-lambda-rie` using your JAR and passing the
client's request parameters, runs your function within a JVM, and returns the
result to the client. It then terminates the Docker container after the client connection is closed.

### A local, native-runtime lambda

1. `cd` again to the `getting_started` directory you made in your first step.
2. Run `make dry-api-native`.

After some compilation, you should see:

```
sam local start-api --template template-native.yml --debug
...
2021-04-24 12:35:00,936 | 1 APIs found in the template
2021-04-24 12:35:00,949 | Mounting ExampleLambdaFunction at http://127.0.0.1:3000/ [GET]
2021-04-24 12:35:00,949 | You can now browse to the above endpoints to invoke your functions. You do not need to restart/reload SAM CLI while working on your functions, changes will be reflected instantly/automatically. You only need to restart SAM CLI if you update your AWS SAM template
2021-04-24 12:35:00,949 | Localhost server is starting up. Multi-threading = True
2021-04-24 12:35:00  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:3000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

3. As with the Java runtime, in another terminal, `cd` to this directory and run `make local-test` to call the API you've created from the Lambda server:

After a few seconds, in this second terminal, you should again see the following output:

```
Connection to localhost port 3000 [tcp/hbci] succeeded!
curl "http://127.0.0.1:3000/"
Hello world%
```

5. Look again at the first terminal that's running the AWS Lambda server, you should see evidence of this api activity with something like:

```
2021-04-24 12:38:29 127.0.0.1 - - [24/Apr/2021 12:38:29] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

The first time you call the API with `make local-test`, there will be
a delay as the Lambda server decompresses your compiled code from the
ZIP file. Subsequent calls will be faster, and should be noticeably
faster than the Java-runtime Lambda server.

#### How did this work?

Running `make dry-api-native` started the `sam local start-api` with
the `template-native.yml` template file as the input. The key parts of
the `template-native.yml` file are the same three YAML fields
(`Handler:`,`FunctionName:` and `CodeUri:`), but `CodeUri:` is a .zip
file rather than a .jar, and contains a Linux executable binary called `output` and a
bootstrap script which simply calls that binary.


The `output` file was created by ... (TODO describe)

As with the Java runtime case, `sam local start-api` listens on port 3000 and waits for a client
connection. To handle the client connection, it starts a Docker
container using the image `TODO`
running `TODO`, which TODO passing the client's request parameters, and returns the
result to the client. Again as with the Java runtime case, `sam` then terminates the Docker container after the client connection is closed.
