# Frequently Asked Questions?! (FAQ)

## What is native runtime?
   Native runtime is GraalVM native-image compiled version of AWS Custom Runtime. Native runtime is entirely written in Clojure and upon `native:executable` packed with the user code. The output artifact of this operation is `zip` which can be deployed with any of the available deployment tools.
   
## Can I use HL with CDK, Pulumi, Terraform?
   Sure! HL doesn't stop you from using any of above deployment tools. All you need is the knowledge how to build deploy-able artifacts, that you can reference in your deployment descriptor.
  
  **Deploy-able artifact coordinate according to runtime**
  - `:java` (java8, java8-corretto) -> `.holy-lambda/build/output.jar` (Either Official Java8 or Java8 corretto runtime)
      ``` 
      bb stack:sync && bb stack:compile
      ```

  - `:native` (provided) -> `.holy-lambda/build/latest.zip` (Native runtime is built into the user codebase)

      ``` 
      bb stack:sync && bb stack:compile
      ```
    
  - `:babashka` (provided) -> `src` (Application sources provided as is)

      Babashka runtime is provided as a deployable serverless layer which you have to deploy manually and reference it's ARN.

      1. Deploy the following [application](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/applications/eu-central-1/443526418261/holy-lambda-babashka-runtime)
        and get the ARN of the layer.
      2. Pack `src` into zip.
      3. Reference the `zip` file in your lambda definition.
      4. Set runtime to `provided` and reference ARN of the layer in `layers` option.
      5. Additional Clojure deps should be packed to a layer. Clojure deps are stored at: `.holy-lambda/bb-clj-deps`.
      6. Additional babashka pods should be packed to a layer. Babashka pods are stored at `.holy-lambda/pods`.
    
## Does `native-agents-payloads` are used by `bb stack:invoke`?

   Nope! Payloads in `native-agents-payloads` are used only by `:native` runtime during `bb native:conf` to gather all the reflective calls the code/libraries use.

   You can however generate an event which you can then fed to `bb stack:invoke :event-file <generated-event-file>` by using `sam local generate-event <service>`.

 More info [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/sam-cli-command-reference-sam-local-generate-event.html).
   
  

